Docs 5537 add rtf to deployment strategies hn (#227)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/deployment-strategies.adoc

* *Troubleshooting*
+
Anypoint Platform PCE does not include the Insight troubleshooting tool. 

== Anypoint Runtime Fabric

image:logo-cloud-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deploying-to-cloudhub", title="CloudHub"]
image:logo-hybrid-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deploying-to-your-own-servers", title="Hybrid"]
image:logo-server-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deploying-to-your-own-servers", title="Anypoint Platform Private Cloud Edition"]
image:logo-rtf-active.png[link="/runtime-fabric/deploy-to-runtime-fabric", title="Anypoint Runtime Fabric"]

Anypoint Runtime Fabric is a container service that automates the deployment and orchestration of Mule applications and API gateways. Runtime Fabric runs within a customer-managed infrastructure on AWS, Azure, virtual machines (VMs), and bare-metal servers.

Runtime Fabric contains all of the components it requires. These components, including Docker and Kubernetes, are optimized to work efficiently with Mule runtimes and other MuleSoft services.

To use the Runtime Fabric option, you first create a Runtime Fabric using Runtime Manager.
Then, you install Runtime Fabric on your infrastructure.

> Finally, you deploy your applications from your on-premises Runtime Manager to either a server, server group, or cluster.

Reviewer: Couple of points:
- Only the cloud version of Runtime Manager is supported.
- Users deploy their application to their Runtime Fabric, not a server/sg/cluster. Their RTF shows up in the deployment target dropdown.

The following features and limitations apply when using Runtime Manager to manage Runtime Fabric deployments:

* *High availability*
+

> Runtime Fabric provides automatic application fail-over.

Reviewer: Runtime Fabric also provides high availability when the user deploys 2 or more replicas per application (note: this is the same concept as workers in CloudHub)

* *Load balancing*
+

> Runtime Fabric does not include the load balancing feature. 

Reviewer: Load balancing is included. It's required to include an external load balancer for production configurations.

You can manage load balancing with the tools connected to your infrastructure.

* *Logging*
+

> Runtime Fabric uses Ops Center to view and configure logs. 

Reviewer: Ops Center shouldn't be featured, as it's not a durable logging solution.
We could highlight support for Anypoint Monitoring Titanium logging.

You can use forward logs from Runtime Fabric to a rsyslog server.
+
See xref:runtime-fabric::runtime-fabric-logs.adoc[View and Configure Logging in Runtime Fabric].

* *Monitoring*
+

> Runtime Fabric provides dashboards and alerts in Ops Center for viewing performance and availability metrics. To receive and send alerts, use an SMTP server.

Reviewer: Would switch the order to put Ops Center last -- it's not the preferred option.

+
See https://docs.mulesoft.com/runtime-fabric/1.4/configure-alerting.adoc[Configure Alerting on Runtime Fabric].
+
You can also use Anypoint Monitoring to view application metrics with Anypoint Platform.
+
See xref:runtime-fabric::manage-monitor-applications.adoc[Monitoring Applications Deployed to Runtime Fabric].

* *Object store*
+

> Runtime Fabric does not support Object Store.

Reviewer: We should put the same message here as we do for Hybrid deployments -- customers must set up their own database.

We can also mention that Mule clustering is supported between replicas of an application.

Author: @sundippatel - should your second suggestion go under HA rather than OS?

* *Scheduling*
+
The scheduling feature is not available for Runtime Fabric deployments.
To schedule tasks, use the Scheduler Endpoint element in your flows.
+
See xref:mule-runtime::scheduler-concept.adoc[Scheduler Endpoint].

* *Security updates*
+
When a security update is available for the runtime version for an app, you can see and apply the update in Runtime Manager.

* *Troubleshooting*
+

> Runtime Fabric does not include the Insight troubleshooting tool. 

Reviewer: Insights is for application troubleshooting -- I think it'd be more accurate to point Anypoint Monitoring as the alternative.

> Instead, use the command-line tools provided to obtain the health status of the cluster and components.

Reviewer: Given the above comment, this wouldn't be an "instead". This is about troubleshooting the Runtime Fabric itself.

+
See xref:runtime-fabric::troubleshoot-guide.adoc[Troubleshooting Guide for Runtime Fabric].

== Shared Resource Support for On-Premises App Deployments

> When deploying on-premises, you can create `Domain` mule projects with no flows and a set of global configuration elements to share among other apps deployed to the same server.

Reviewer: Should clarify this is for "hybrid" only. This does not apply for Runtime Fabric deployments.

= Deployment Options
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:page-aliases: general:getting-started:deploy-to-server.adoc

image:logo-cloud-active.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#cloudhub", title="CloudHub"]
image:logo-hybrid-active.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#hybrid", title="Hybrid"]
image:logo-server-active.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-platform-private-cloud-edition", title="Anypoint Platform PCE"]
image:logo-rtf-active.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-runtime-fabric", title="Runtime Fabric"]

> When you run an app in Anypoint Studio, the app deploys to an embedded test server in Studio. Because this server is not meant for production deployment and uptime restrictions apply, deploy your Mule app using one of the deployment options supported by Runtime Manager.

Reviewer 2: Runtime Manager > Anypoint Runtime Manager

* *<<CloudHub>>*
+
Deploy your apps from https://anypoint.mulesoft.com[Anypoint Platform] Runtime Manager cloud console and host them in xref:cloudhub.adoc[CloudHub].
* *<<Hybrid>>*
+
Deploy your apps from https://anypoint.mulesoft.com[Anypoint Platform] Runtime Manager cloud console and host them on your Mule servers.
* *<<Anypoint Platform Private Cloud Edition>>*
+

> Deploy your apps from your on-premises Runtime Manager provided with xref:private-cloud::index.adoc[Anypoint Platform PCE] and host them on your Mule servers.

Reviewer 2: Runtime Manager name needs a common noun object. 
GLOBAL for all product names.

* *<<Anypoint Runtime Fabric>>*
+

> Deploy your apps from https://anypoint.mulesoft.com[Anypoint Platform] Runtime Manager cloud console and host them in xref:runtime-fabric::index.adoc[Runtime Fabric].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deploy your apps from https://anypoint.mulesoft.com[Anypoint Platform] Runtime Manager cloud console and host them in xref:runtime-fabric::index.adoc[Anypoint Runtime Fabric].
```

> == Icons Identify Content for Each Deployment

Reviewer 2: Do the icons identify content or deployment options (per the sentence that follows)?

Clarify and try to reword title to not be a sentence.

> Icons appear at the top of each page in the Runtime Manager documentation, indicating the deployment options to which the content applies. If the content doesn't apply to a deployment strategy, the icon appears grayed out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Icons appear at the top of each page in the Runtime Manager documentation, indicating the deployment options to which the content applies. If the content doesn't apply to a deployment strategy, the icon is deactivated.
```
...or "unavailable." Per writing style guide.

[%header,cols="20,10,10"]

|===
|Deployment|Content Applies |Content Doesn't Apply
|CloudHub
|image:logo-cloud-active.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#cloudhub", title="CloudHub"]
|image:logo-cloud-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#cloudhub", title="CloudHub"]

|Hybrid
|image:logo-hybrid-active.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#hybrid", title="Hybrid"]
|image:logo-hybrid-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#hybrid", title="Hybrid"]

|Anypoint Platform Private Cloud Edition 
|image:logo-server-active.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-platform-private-cloud-edition", title="Anypoint Platform PCE"]
|image:logo-server-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-platform-private-cloud-edition", title="Anypoint Platform PCE"]

|Anypoint Runtime Fabric
|image:logo-rtf-active.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-runtime-fabric", title="Runtime Fabric"]
|image:logo-rtf-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-runtime-fabric", title="Runtime Fabric"]

|===

> The following sections give an overview of the deployment options you can use with Runtime Manager to host and manage your Mule applications.

Reviewer 2: Reword to not be self-referential.
Avoid referring to document, section, topic, and so on.
Try to make individual text units independent to facilitate future reuse.

> == CloudHub

Reviewer 2: Consider making more specific: CloudHub Application Deployment Option? Deploying Mule Applications with CloudHub?

image:logo-cloud-active.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#cloudhub", title="CloudHub"]
image:logo-hybrid-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#hybrid", title="Hybrid"]
image:logo-server-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-platform-private-cloud-edition", title="Anypoint Platform PCE"]
image:logo-rtf-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-runtime-fabric", title="Runtime Fabric"]

> CloudHub is a complete integration platform as a service (iPaaS) that provides server functionality out of the box.

Reviewer 2: Can you think of a less colloquial alternative to "out of the box"?

You deploy your apps to CloudHub from the Runtime Manager cloud console without having to configure a hosting environment.
Based on your contract, you control how many resources to assign to your application.

image::infrastructure-simple-cloud.png[ch]

The following features and limitations apply when using Runtime Manager to manage CloudHub deployments:

* *Distributed locks*
+

> CloudHub does not coordinate invocations of FTP and File endpoints across multiple workers.

Reviewer 2: FTP and File = connector names? If so, use full names.
See writing style reference entry for "connector names."

* *High availability*
+
CloudHub provides high availability with the clustering feature, which includes load balancing, persistent message queues, and horizontal scaleout. 
+
See xref:cloudhub-fabric.adoc[Clustering].
+
CloudHub also actively monitors services and workers for problems and corrects issues. For example, in the case of hardware failure, CloudHub auto-migrates the application to a different worker using CloudHub zero downtime updates.

* *JDK versions*
+

> The version of JDK that CloudHub implements for all apps built with Mule runtime 3.5.1 or greater is JDK 1.7. Mule runtime 3.7.0 also supports JDK 1.8. Apps built with runtime 3.5.0 or older are deployed with JDK 1.6.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The version of JDK that CloudHub implements for all apps built with Mule runtime engine (Mule) 3.5.1 or greater is JDK 1.7. Mule 3.7.0 also supports JDK 1.8. Apps built with runtime 3.5.0 or later are deployed with JDK 1.6.
```

Author: older != later, though.

* *Load balancing*
+

> If your app runs on multiple workers, the CloudHub shared load automatically balances incoming traffic evenly.

Reviewer 2: "evenly" is redundant of "balances"
```suggestion
If your app runs on multiple workers, the CloudHub shared load automatically balances incoming traffic.
```

+
Alternatively, you can use the optional dedicated load balancer (DLB) component to

> route external traffic to multiple Mule applications deployed to CloudHub workers in a Virtual Private Cloud (VPC).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
route external traffic to multiple Mule applications deployed to CloudHub workers in a virtual private cloud (VPC).
```

+
See xref:dedicated-load-balancer-tutorial.adoc[CloudHub Load Balancers].

* *Logging*
+

> CloudHub provides a logging service for customizing log levels, searching, and downloading logs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CloudHub provides a logging service for customizing log levels, searching logs, and downloading logs.
```

+
See xref:viewing-log-data.adoc[Viewing Log Data]. 

* *Monitoring*
+
The Runtime Manager cloud console includes dashboards that provide performance metrics for all deployed applications.
+

> With Runtime Manager, you can set up alerts based on alert conditions on deployed apps, and standard notifications to inform you when events occur in your applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With Runtime Manager, you can set up both alerts based on alert conditions on deployed apps and standard notifications to inform you when events occur in your applications.
```

+
You can also set up custom alerts and notifications that are triggered by any event by adding a CloudHub connector to your app's flows.
+
See xref:monitoring.adoc[Monitoring Applications and Servers].

* *Object store*
+

> CloudHub provides a preconfigured default object store that you can reference using the Object Store Connector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CloudHub provides a preconfigured default object store that you can reference using Anypoint Connector for Object Store.
```

+
See xref:managing-application-data-with-object-stores.adoc[Managing Application Data Storage with Object Stores].
+

> One limitation of the CloudHub object store is that idempotent routers work with in-memory stores.

Reviewer 2: Should this come before the xref?

And will your audience understand how this is a limitation? Is this supposed to say "work only with..."?

* *Scheduling*
+
You can manage schedules for CloudHub apps using the Runtime Manager UI.
+
See xref:managing-schedules.adoc[Managing Schedules].

* *Security updates*
+
When a security update is available for the runtime version for an app, you can see and apply the update in Runtime Manager. 

* *Shared resource support*
+
Because each application deployed to CloudHub runs on a separate virtual server, you don't need to use domains to share ports or other resources between apps.

* *Troubleshooting*
+
CloudHub provides the Insight troubleshooting tool that provides in-depth visibility into business transactions and events on your Mule apps deployed through Runtime Manager.
+
See xref:insight.adoc[Insight].

> == Hybrid 

Reviewer 2: Consider making this more specific.

image:logo-cloud-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#cloudhub", title="CloudHub"]
image:logo-hybrid-active.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#hybrid", title="Hybrid"]
image:logo-server-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-platform-private-cloud-edition", title="Anypoint Platform PCE"]
image:logo-rtf-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-runtime-fabric", title="Runtime Fabric"]

With the hybrid deployment option, you deploy your apps from the Runtime Manager cloud console to your Mule servers and use Runtime Manager to manage them.

> This option allows for flexibility and control over your on-premises security but requires you to provide the hosting infrastructure.

Reviewer 2: active
```suggestion
This option provides you with flexibility and control over your on-premises security but requires you to provide the hosting infrastructure.
```

To use the hybrid option, you first register your Mule servers with Runtime Manager agent.
Then, from Runtime Manager, you can optionally add those servers to server groups or clusters 
to provide high availability.
Finally, you deploy your applications from Runtime Manager to either a server, server group, or cluster.

image::infrastructure-hybrid.png[hybrid]

The following features and limitations apply when using Runtime Manager to manage hybrid deployments:

* *High availability*
+

> For high availability capabilities in hybrid deployments, use server groups or clusters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To achieve high availability in hybrid deployments, use server groups or clusters.
```

> Clustered Mule instances have distributed shared memory, which used to provide persistent VM queues, transactions, and cluster-wide data storage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Clustered Mule instances have distributed shared memory, which provides persistent VM queues, transactions, and cluster-wide data storage.
```

+
See xref:server-group-about.adoc[Server Groups], xref:cluster-about.adoc[Clusters], and xref:mule-runtime::mule-high-availability-ha-clusters.adoc[Mule Runtime High Availability (HA) Cluster Overview].

* *JDK versions*
+
For hybrid deployments, see the release notes of the Mule runtime engine to determine the minimum JDK supported version.
+
See xref:release-notes::mule-runtime/mule-esb.adoc[Mule Runtime Release Notes].

* *Load balancing*
+
Load balancing is not provided for hybrid deployments. 
You can manage load balancing with the tools connected to your on-premises resources.

* *Logging*
+
The Runtime Manager logging feature is not available for hybrid deployments.
You can configure on-premises apps to send data to external analytics tools, such as Splunk or ELK, to manage your logs.
+
See xref:sending-data-from-arm-to-external-analytics-software.adoc[Export Data to External Analytics Tools].

* *Monitoring*
+
The Runtime Manager cloud console includes dashboards that provide performance metrics for all deployed applications.
+

> With Runtime Manager, you can set up alerts based on alert conditions on deployed apps, and standard notifications to inform you when events occur in your applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With Runtime Manager, you can set up both alerts based on alert conditions on deployed apps and standard notifications to inform you when events occur in your applications.
```

You can also create alerts that are triggered by events related to the servers on which they run, such as reaching a certain CPU usage threshold or adding a new node to a cluster.
+
See xref:monitoring.adoc[Monitoring Applications and Servers].

* *Object store* 
+
The object store infrastructure is not available for hybrid deployments. 
To use object stores, you must configure a database to store data.
+
See xref:connectors::object-store/object-store-connector.adoc[Object Stores].

* *Scheduling*
+
The scheduling feature is not available for hybrid deployments.

> To schedule tasks, use the Scheduler Endpoint element in your flows.

Reviewer 2: Should this really be capitalized?

+
See xref:mule-runtime::scheduler-concept.adoc[Scheduler Endpoint].

* *Security updates*
+

> After an application is deployed and running, you must apply any updates for the selected runtime version manually.

Reviewer 2: any updates or security updates?

* *Shared resource support*
+
See <<Shared Resource Support for On-Premises App Deployments>>.

* *Troubleshooting*
+
The Insight troubleshooting tool is not available for hybrid deployments.

=== Security for Hybrid Deployments

> By default, no application data flows to the cloud, only metadata pushed by the Runtime Manager agent in each Mule runtime engine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, only metadata pushed by the Runtime Manager agent in each Mule runtime engine flows to the cloud. No application data is exposed.
```

The agent monitors and controls Mule, and publishes its data to the control plane.

> You can control Mule from external systems by calling Runtime Manager agent APIs, or specify that Mule publishes its data to external systems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can control Mule from external systems by calling Runtime Manager agent APIs, or you can specify that Mule publish its data to external systems.
```

You can change the default behavior so that the agent pushes IDs, final average numbers, or any data you find useful for monitoring or keeping control of applications.
See xref:runtime-manager-agent.adoc[Runtime Manager Agent]. 

You can also tokenize sensitive data.
See xref:anypoint-security::tokenization-example.adoc[Tokenization Service Components].

> == Anypoint Platform Private Cloud Edition 

Reviewer 2: Consider making more specific: what ABOUT PCE?

Reviewer 2: Ditto previous edits made to all the following list texts. Not edited.

You can also create alerts that are triggered by events related to the servers on which they run, such as reaching a certain CPU usage threshold or adding a new node to a cluster.
+
See xref:monitoring.adoc[Monitoring Applications and Servers].

* *Object store* 
+
The object store infrastructure is not available for Anypoint Platform PCE deployments. 
To use object stores, you must configure a database to store data.
+
See xref:connectors::object-store/object-store-connector.adoc[Object Stores].

* *Scheduling*
+
The scheduling feature is not available for Anypoint Platform PCE deployments.
To schedule tasks, use the Scheduler Endpoint element in your flows.
+
See xref:mule-runtime::scheduler-concept.adoc[Scheduler Endpoint].

* *Security updates*
+
After an application is deployed and running, you must apply any updates for the selected runtime version manually.

* *Shared resource support*
+
See <<Shared Resource Support for On-Premises App Deployments>>.

* *Troubleshooting*
+
Anypoint Platform PCE does not include the Insight troubleshooting tool. 

> == Anypoint Runtime Fabric

Reviewer 2: Consider making more specific.
Ditto previous edits to list items. Not reedited.
